connections.md, before:

# Useful Scripts

## Make Request

Sometimes we might want to make a request to a website programmatically. Instead of having to visit the page in the browser. In Python we can to it the following way.

If you don't have the module requests installed you can install it like this.

`pip install requests`

```python
import requests

req = requests.get("http://site.com")
print req.status_code
print req.text
```

### Custom headers

We might receive a `403` error if we don't include a user-agent. Or we might want to send a specific header. We can do that the following way.

```python
import requests

headers = {
"Accept": "text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,image/webp,*/*;q=0.8",
"Accept-Encoding": "gzip, deflate, sdch",
"Accept-Language": "en-US,en;q=0.8,es;q=0.6,sv;q=0.4",
"Cache-Control": "max-age=0",
"Connection": "keep-alive",
"Cookie": "_gauges_unique_hour=1; _gauges_unique_day=1; _gauges_unique_month=1; _gauges_unique_year=1; _gauges_unique=1",
"Host": "docs.python-requests.org",
"If-Modified-Since": "Wed, 03 Aug 2016 20:05:34 GMT",
"If-None-Match": 'W/"57a24e8e-e1f3"',
"Referer": "https://www.google.com/",
"Upgrade-Insecure-Requests": "1",
"User-Agent": "Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/52.0.2743.82 Safari/537.36"
}

req = requests.get("http://site.com", headers=headers)
print req.status_code
print req.text
```

If you need to add an action, like loggin in or something like that, to your request you do the following:

```python
values = {'action' : 'whatever'}
req = requests.get("http://site.com", data=values, headers=headers)
```

Here is the documentation  
[http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/user/quickstart/](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/user/quickstart/)

## Read and write to files

Many times we want to read through files and do stuff do it. This can of course be done using bash but we can also do it in python. It might be easier to parse text in python.

```python
file_open = open("readme.txt", "r")
for line in file_open:
    print line.strip("\n")
    if line.strip("\n") == "rad 4":
        print "last line"
```

### Send requests to your proxy \(like Burp\)

```
import os
os.environ['HTTPS_PROXY'] = '<proxyurl>:<port>' 
# http://127.0.0.1:8080 if it is burp
# Then you need to add verify=False
requests.get("https://google.com", headers=headers,verify=False)
```

## Basic banner-grabber

Here is an example of the most basic usage of the socket module. It connects to a port and prints out the response.

```python
#!/user/bin/env python

# Importing the socket module
import socket

# We use the socker() method of the module socket and store it in the variable s.
s = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)

# Here we use the connect method of the socket we created. The two arguments are pretty self-explanatory
# The first is the adress the second is the port.
s.connect(("192.168.1.104", 22))

# Here we save what the socket reviewed in the variable answer.
answer = s.recv(1024)
print answer

# Send stuff. REMEMBER THE \r\n

s.send("this is my message\r\n")
print s.recv(1024)

# Here we close the socket.
s.close
```

If you need to check all 65535 ports this might take some time. If a packet is sent and recieved that makes it 65535 seconds, it translates into about 18 hours. So to solve that we can run the a function in new threads.

```python
from multiprocessing.dummy import Pool as ThreadPool
pool = ThreadPool(300)
results = pool.map(function, array)
```

Read more about parallellism here: [http://chriskiehl.com/article/parallelism-in-one-line/](http://chriskiehl.com/article/parallelism-in-one-line/)

## Connecting to SMTP

A crappy script to connect to a smtp-server and if you are allowed to test for users with VRFY it goes ahead and test for the users that you input from a file.  
One very important thing to note here, that had me stuck for quite a while is that you need to send the query strings in raw-format

The `\r` here is fundamental!!

```
s.send('VRFY root \r\n')
```

```python
#!/usr/bin/python
import socket
import sys
import time
import re

ips = [
"192.168.1.22",
"192.168.1.72"
]

users = ["root"]

userfile = open("/fileWithUsernames.txt", "r")
for line in userfile:
    user = line.strip("\n")
    users.append(user)


for ip in ips:
    s = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    s.connect((ip, 25))
    banner = s.recv(1024)

    print "****************************"
    print "Report for " + ip
    print banner
    s.send('VRFY root \r\n')
    answerUsername = s.recv(1024)
    answerAsArray = answerUsername.split(" ")

    if answerAsArray[0] == "502":
        print "VRFY failed"
    if answerAsArray[0] == "250":
        print "VRFY command succeeded.\nProceeding to test usernames"

        for username in users:
            time.sleep(5)
            s.send("VRFY " + username + "\r\n")

            answerUsername = s.recv(1024)
            answerUsernameArray = answerUsername.split(" ")
            print answerUsernameArray[0]
            if answerUsernameArray[0] == "250":
                print "Exists: " + username.strip("\n") 
            else :
                print "Does NOT exist: " + username.strip("\n")
    if answerAsArray[0] == "252":
        print "FAILED - Cannot verify user"
    else:
        "Some other error or whatever here it is: \n" + answerUsername



    s.close()
```

## Client/Server using sockets

[http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/171734/difference-between-a-socket-and-a-port](http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/171734/difference-between-a-socket-and-a-port)

Commit message:

Connect to running db in django app

connections.md, after:

# Updates:

| date | name | description | comment | link |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 09/2020 | Django DB | Connect to production DB running under Django framework | Django DB production | [Django DB](#django-db) |

# Useful Scripts

## Make Request

Sometimes we might want to make a request to a website programmatically. Instead of having to visit the page in the browser. In Python we can to it the following way.

If you don't have the module requests installed you can install it like this.

`pip install requests`

```python
import requests

req = requests.get("http://site.com")
print req.status_code
print req.text
```

### Custom headers

We might receive a `403` error if we don't include a user-agent. Or we might want to send a specific header. We can do that the following way.

```python
import requests

headers = {
"Accept": "text/html,application/xhtml+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,image/webp,*/*;q=0.8",
"Accept-Encoding": "gzip, deflate, sdch",
"Accept-Language": "en-US,en;q=0.8,es;q=0.6,sv;q=0.4",
"Cache-Control": "max-age=0",
"Connection": "keep-alive",
"Cookie": "_gauges_unique_hour=1; _gauges_unique_day=1; _gauges_unique_month=1; _gauges_unique_year=1; _gauges_unique=1",
"Host": "docs.python-requests.org",
"If-Modified-Since": "Wed, 03 Aug 2016 20:05:34 GMT",
"If-None-Match": 'W/"57a24e8e-e1f3"',
"Referer": "https://www.google.com/",
"Upgrade-Insecure-Requests": "1",
"User-Agent": "Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/52.0.2743.82 Safari/537.36"
}

req = requests.get("http://site.com", headers=headers)
print req.status_code
print req.text
```

If you need to add an action, like loggin in or something like that, to your request you do the following:

```python
values = {'action' : 'whatever'}
req = requests.get("http://site.com", data=values, headers=headers)
```

Here is the documentation  
[http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/user/quickstart/](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/user/quickstart/)

## Read and write to files

Many times we want to read through files and do stuff do it. This can of course be done using bash but we can also do it in python. It might be easier to parse text in python.

```python
file_open = open("readme.txt", "r")
for line in file_open:
    print line.strip("\n")
    if line.strip("\n") == "rad 4":
        print "last line"
```

### Send requests to your proxy \(like Burp\)

```
import os
os.environ['HTTPS_PROXY'] = '<proxyurl>:<port>' 
# http://127.0.0.1:8080 if it is burp
# Then you need to add verify=False
requests.get("https://google.com", headers=headers,verify=False)
```

## Basic banner-grabber

Here is an example of the most basic usage of the socket module. It connects to a port and prints out the response.

```python
#!/user/bin/env python

# Importing the socket module
import socket

# We use the socker() method of the module socket and store it in the variable s.
s = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)

# Here we use the connect method of the socket we created. The two arguments are pretty self-explanatory
# The first is the adress the second is the port.
s.connect(("192.168.1.104", 22))

# Here we save what the socket reviewed in the variable answer.
answer = s.recv(1024)
print answer

# Send stuff. REMEMBER THE \r\n

s.send("this is my message\r\n")
print s.recv(1024)

# Here we close the socket.
s.close
```

If you need to check all 65535 ports this might take some time. If a packet is sent and recieved that makes it 65535 seconds, it translates into about 18 hours. So to solve that we can run the a function in new threads.

```python
from multiprocessing.dummy import Pool as ThreadPool
pool = ThreadPool(300)
results = pool.map(function, array)
```

Read more about parallellism here: [http://chriskiehl.com/article/parallelism-in-one-line/](http://chriskiehl.com/article/parallelism-in-one-line/)

## Connecting to SMTP

A crappy script to connect to a smtp-server and if you are allowed to test for users with VRFY it goes ahead and test for the users that you input from a file.  
One very important thing to note here, that had me stuck for quite a while is that you need to send the query strings in raw-format

The `\r` here is fundamental!!

```
s.send('VRFY root \r\n')
```

```python
#!/usr/bin/python
import socket
import sys
import time
import re

ips = [
"192.168.1.22",
"192.168.1.72"
]

users = ["root"]

userfile = open("/fileWithUsernames.txt", "r")
for line in userfile:
    user = line.strip("\n")
    users.append(user)


for ip in ips:
    s = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
    s.connect((ip, 25))
    banner = s.recv(1024)

    print "****************************"
    print "Report for " + ip
    print banner
    s.send('VRFY root \r\n')
    answerUsername = s.recv(1024)
    answerAsArray = answerUsername.split(" ")

    if answerAsArray[0] == "502":
        print "VRFY failed"
    if answerAsArray[0] == "250":
        print "VRFY command succeeded.\nProceeding to test usernames"

        for username in users:
            time.sleep(5)
            s.send("VRFY " + username + "\r\n")

            answerUsername = s.recv(1024)
            answerUsernameArray = answerUsername.split(" ")
            print answerUsernameArray[0]
            if answerUsernameArray[0] == "250":
                print "Exists: " + username.strip("\n") 
            else :
                print "Does NOT exist: " + username.strip("\n")
    if answerAsArray[0] == "252":
        print "FAILED - Cannot verify user"
    else:
        "Some other error or whatever here it is: \n" + answerUsername



    s.close()
```

## Django db

To connect to a database of a running app, you need to set up environment variable DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE to point to settings.py of the running app. After that start python shell and set settings.DEBUG to True (might not be needed - TODO: check) and then use introspection to list existing tables and raw query to get the data.

- set env variable DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE to point to settings.py of the running app:

```bash
export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=<app_name>.settings
```

```python
from django.conf import settings
settings.DEBUG=True

from django.db import connection
connection.introspection.table_names()

connection.cursor().execute("select * from <table_name>")
```

## Client/Server using sockets

[http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/171734/difference-between-a-socket-and-a-port](http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/171734/difference-between-a-socket-and-a-port)
